# PTP Meeting March 19 2018

## Quick chat before lunch

Attending: Ola, Jonathan and Samuel

### Drugbank vs ExcapeDB overlap

We looked at the overlap between drugbank and excapedb (which is the output of [this experiement folder](https://github.com/pharmbio/ptp-project/blob/master/exp/20180227-excape-vs-drugbank/excapevsdrugbank.go)). It looks like so:

```json
{
  "excapedb_compounds_in_drugbank_approved": 1068,
  "excapedb_compounds_in_drugbank_total": 1169,
  "excapedb_compounds_in_drugbank_withdrawn": 101,
  "excapedb_compounds_total": 998131
}
{
  "excapedb_fraction_compounds_in_drugbank_approved": 0.001069999829681675,
  "excapedb_fraction_compounds_in_drugbank_total": 0.0011711889521515712,
  "excapedb_fraction_compounds_in_drugbank_withdrawn": 0.00010118912246989624
}
{
  "excapedb_entries_in_drugbank_approved": 112276,
  "excapedb_entries_in_drugbank_total": 123264,
  "excapedb_entries_in_drugbank_withdrawn": 10988,
  "excapedb_entries_total": 70850163
}
{
  "excapedb_fraction_entries_in_drugbank_approved": 0.0015846964247633417,
  "excapedb_fraction_entries_in_drugbank_total": 0.0017397842825005215,
  "excapedb_fraction_entries_in_drugbank_withdrawn": 0.0001550878577371798
}
```

We concluded it is so small it doesn't seem to matter much (Ola: Could have done if it was a few percent)

## Meeting after lunch

Attending: Jonathan, Staffan, Samuel

We discussed and clarified the status regarding flags and functionality in
CPSign for separating the proper training set in the crossvalidate command,
and producing calibration points (for plotting), also in the crossvalidate
command.

We concluded:

- Staffan will implement a flag for adding a proper train data set, in the
  crossvalidate command.
  - This seems the most reasonable, as a cross-validation needs to be run
    to generate these points anyway, so doesn't really make sense to make
    this a separate feature.
  - Staffan will modify the crossvalidate functionality so that it trains the
    model once per fold, and then does predictions for all the confidence
    values, to produce the plotting points. If we would have implemented this
    in the (scipipe) workflow, it would have meant a lot of wasted computing
    time, by re-training (not re-using the already trained) models for every
    confidence-leve.
- Staffan will add functionality to output calibration plot data from the crossvalidate
  command.
  - Samuel thinks JSON is a pretty robust format in general, especially for
    hierarchic stuff.
  - Staffan noted though that items in arrays in JSON are not sorted, which
    might be a problem sometimes.
  - We leave it up to staffan to implement the output in a format that seems
    reasonable.
